---
layout: post
title:  "Building a CLI gem"
date:   2016-09-18 20:31:33 +0000
---


So here I am trying to wrap up everything I need for my program. The cool part about coming back to this gem project is that when I first looked at it long ago, it seemed like a crazy hard thing to create. Now after diving into so much more programming concepts, it didn't seem too bad. I decided to make a gem for seeing new comic releases. This however, got changed after hours of not being able to get it to work. I would later find out that I could have made it work, it just took some figuring out with Nokogiri. The project got changed to a comic store locator.

I started with reviewing how to make a gem and watching the review video that is on there now. I also used some great resources to get me started (http://bundler.io/v1.12/guides/creating_gem.html) and the ruby gems tutorial as well. It took a while to figure out my file paths and requires. After that it was just getting Nokogiri to work how I wanted it to. I tried for hours to get the info I wanted pulled into an array. It was going nowhere. That's when I decided to change to a store locator, thinking that the problem was with the page layout of previewsworld.com. I moved onto this new store locator idea and ran into a major problem again. I found that almost every locator is hosted on a site that keeps its URLs to /locator even after a zip code had been entered. The only one that didn't had a poor page layout with no classes or ids in the html elements. I decided to call it quits for the night at 4:30. I woke up and realized I should check out a site of local listing for business like yelp. I ended up going with yellow pages because the html was easier to parse. I was finally able to get Nokogiri working with me after checking out a ton of documentation and trying out different things. I also went through many ways of laying out my code before deciding on a less spread out version (referring to methods) of my code. The last hiccup I ran into was that for some reason the line of code that was used to pick out which store you wanted more details of was not working. Using the [input.to_i - 1] was not working. I took it out, tried it, added a +1, tried it and then back to a -1 and for some reason it started working. This was a fun project and gems now seem like kind of a fun thing to create. Although, it will be some time before I create a useful well developed one.
